# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
  def initialize(options)
    @id = options['id'].to_i if options['id']
    @address = options['address']
    @value = options['value'].to_i
    @bedrooms = options['bedrooms'].to_i
    @build = options["build"]
  end

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
CREATE TABLE properties (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  address VARCHAR(255),
  value INT,
  bedrooms INT,
  build VARCHAR(255)
);

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
Property.delete_all()
property1.save()
property2.save()
property3.save()
property1.delete()


Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
Because we don't know how many objects there are going to be.
Opens up to user error e.g. using the same id twice

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
    @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
to gaurd against if there isnt an ID

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
Because instance methods are used to affect the database while class methods are used to read elements of the database

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
As arguements


Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?



## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

Q11. What are their return values?
